I want to show you three videos that I
prompted into existence using remotion
and claude code. First, how I made a
clean screenshot of our tweet while
keeping the video playing. Second,
turning a flat SVG logo into a 3D one
that spins and has cool glitch effects.
And finally, cutting together some raw
footage, removing the silences, and
adding burntin captions to it. For those
who are new to the channel, I started
Remotion back in 2021 before Chat GPT
was out as a way to make videos
programmatically.
This week we released agent skills
allowing you to add reotion domain
knowledge to claude code and other
coding agents so that you can create
videos just by prompting. The post went
viral on X which made me extremely
happy. I wanted to post the announcement
also on LinkedIn, but at the same time
also show how much reaction it got. So I
figured the best thing would be to post
a screenshot of the tweet, but also play
the announcement video in it so that you
get the full picture. And this is how I
prompted it together. For all of the
examples that I am about to show you,
here is a quick guide on how to do the
setup. My first prompt to Claude was to
import the screenshot into the project
and make a new composition with the
width and height matching the image
dimensions.
Make sure to always explicitly say that
you want to use the reotion best
practices skill as claude will not
always automatically pick that up. Then
I provided it with the file path to the
announcement video and asked it to
overlay it on top of the screenshot. It
did that and it also automatically
adjusted the duration of the composition
which was nice. However, the position of
the video was not quite right and it
rendered too high on the canvas. So what
now? I could have fixed this with some
more prompts by asking Claude to shift
the video down until it is perfect or I
could have gone into the code and fixed
it myself.
Here is another way to do it and this is
a Remotion Pro tip. We have a thing
called visual controls. You can ask
Claude to add a visual control to the Y
position of an element. Now in the
studio, I got a slider where I can
manually adjust the Y position and I am
able to save this back to the code. With
the next couple of prompts, I cleaned up
some details, added a border and a
border radius. And I placed the tweet as
a card in the middle of a gray
background, some more padding, some more
shadows, and the video is ready to
render. And of course, you also don't
have to leave Cloud for that. The next
example is honestly so cool. It starts
off with a flat logo I designed in
Figma. I exported it as an SVG and asked
Clo to make a new composition and bring
the logo into the third dimension. That
worked right away even though I did not
like the design of it that much. After a
few correction prompts, I found the
style that I liked. Also, you could see
the logo from behind when it rotates. So
I asked Clo to only rotate it from minus
90 to 90°. This animation is based on
React 3 fiber, meaning that we can add
cool effects to it. So I asked it to add
a glitch effect from React
post-processing.
And as you can see, it works, but there
is a problem. The effect uses randomness
and is not synchronized with Remotion's
clock. This leads to flickering during
render and we can also see the problem
in preview where the glitch effect is
playing even though the video itself is
paused. Fortunately, because of the
skill, Cloud is aware of the problem and
suggests a fix. All you have to do is
accept the help that you are being
offered. I want to show you that
professionals can make use of Remotion
without having to leave their tools
behind. So, we're going to export this
as a transparent video so that you can
use it in After Effects. I asked Claude
exactly that, and it almost worked,
although it made a tiny mistake in the
command line flags. The fix for this was
to search in the Reotion documentation
for transparent videos and give Claude
the link and ask it to fix the problem.
We probably can fix this from our side.
So maybe if you see this video in the
future, it will not be a problem
anymore. But nonetheless, I want to be
honest of what your experience might be
like and also give you some ideas on how
you can troubleshoot if you run into
issues. Now I can drag in the video as a
layer in After Effects. As a background,
I chose some white noise. Looks pretty
cool, right? For the last example, we're
just going to give Cloud Code some raw
footage from the iPhone and ask it to
cut it together for us. I gave it a list
of videos from my download folder and
asked it to play them in sequence.
Again, we hit a road bump. Cloud left us
with some code that did not compile at
all and it referenced the download
folder instead of copying the files into
the project. So I just prompted it to
fix the errors and import the files into
the project. Fortunately, that did the
job. With the next prompt, I asked it to
do silence detection and remove the
silence at the start and end of each
clip. It did that perfectly. It was
almost too good because now there was no
gap between my sentences at all. So with
the next prompt, I added back 0.15
seconds of padding for each clip. And
also I noticed that I provided the clips
in the wrong order. So I asked it to
sort the clips by their file name. Are
you ready for one crazy ass prompt? I
asked it to add burntin subtitles to the
video.
This led it to download the remotion
installed whisper CPP module, clone the
whisper CPP source from git, compile it,
download a whisper model, run the
transcription for each clip,
convert them to JSON, and display them
on top of our remotion timeline. There
were two mistakes made alongside the
way. All of the words are glued together
and the timing was also off. Mr. Claude,
could you fix that for us?
Thank you. You're the absolute best. I
could have done more fun things with
Claude, like asking it to fix the
mistakes in the transcript or to animate
the captions. But I just asked it to
export the video and also generate an
SRT file that I could upload to YouTube
for subtitles. and that all worked out
perfectly. I hope you're taking the
right things away from this video. This
workflow is not perfect. Things will go
wrong and knowing how to intervene and
having technical knowledge is still a
useful skill to have. I hope that as you
play around more with this, you will get
a deeper understanding of how things
work under the hood and get better
results over time. Also, I think you
will get the best results if you combine
Remotion with other tools. I
intentionally showed Figma and After
Effects in this video to get this point
across. Remember that Remotion is not an
AI tool per se. I started it way back in
2021 and been improving it almost every
day since then. How we enable the AI
magic is just through some markdown
files that we call skills. And if some
prompts does not go the way you imagined
then you can report it to us and we can
take a look and you can even contribute
to improve the skills andor the
framework itself. I will stay here and
continue to improve freeotion as my
full-time job together with my awesome
team. Some people wonder how we sustain
ourselves through this and the answer is
licensing. We make Remotion completely
free for individuals and teams of up to
three people. But for bigger companies
that build something serious with
Remotion, we require licensing.
So please keep that in mind and thank
you for your support that allows us to
do our awesome jobs. It's an exciting
time and I am in awe that because of AI
more people are now enjoying our tool. I
hope to catch you in another video.
Thank you for watching.